# jupyter_pdf_simple_analysis
**Includes table data extraction from a pdf file to Jupyter, data cleaning and basic application of statistics and probability theory.**
---
This is my first, public, data-driven analysis. It's not a complex project which involves large datasets, advanced analytics or Machine Learning techniques. Instead, I will present a simple analysis along with some statistical and probability theory concepts, as well as, my personal approaches to problem solving. keep reading and open the Jupyter file to see how I came up with the idea and the challenges I had dealt with. 

This readme file was primarily created for motivational purposes. Specifically, I had been attempting to discover the "perfect" idea for a data-driven project over the last few months. As a result, I had been continuously postponing the real actions, such as, starting this kind of project. I hope my project along with this README will motivate potential Computer Science beginners who might lack the experience of taking real actions. 

While I was studying a Data Science related Udemy course, the instructor provided a pdf file which was part of the Common Data Sets of Hamilton College. The corresponding section of the course this file was provided was related to Statistics and Probability Theory. Until that moment, I was keeping detailed notes, considering this as a great opportunity to refresh my Statistics understanding. The instructor explained few key concepts about a specific table, demonstrating how a real statistician approaches and manages data. I was suprised by these ideas and paused the video immediately. Although I had previously applied basic statistics for real-life purposes and understood the classical definition of probability and the importance of adjusted magnitudes, I lacked the foundation to apply deeper concepts out in the wild. The course and my notes helped me refresh basic statistics and the instructor's approach gave me ideas of the way these concepts can be applied to practical situations. 

After discovering the idea and knowing exactly where I wanted to go, I decided to use Jupyter in case I needed Python for this project. My other option was Microsoft Word which would have been more than enough for showcasing some statistics knowledge, but I exclude it because of its limitations. Keeping in mind the idea concepts and having decided upon Jupyter, the first problem I needed to solve was finding a way to programmatically extract data from a pdf file. I could have approached this issue by just typing the data in a Jupyter cell, since the table I used was really small, but I thought it would be ideal to approach the issue with a more consolidated way. After successfully extracting the correct data table, I applied the necessary data cleaning and I finally presented some statistical and probability theory concepts. This project also provided a great opportunity to further experiment with markdown syntax.

Thank you!
